Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to show you a horror film
called Veronica.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take careThe day is June 15,
1991; heavy rain takes over the city of Madrid.
Police cars receive a call from a girl asking
for help.
She keeps saying, “He’s inside!
He’s inside!”
As the police arrive at the apartment, they
sense something unnatural and are completely
in shock as they see what’s behind the door.
Three days before the incident happened, Veronica’s
family has a simple life.
She has three younger siblings: Lucia, Irene,
who are twins, and Antoñito.
She is in charge of feeding them, getting
them ready for school, and everything in between.
She mainly takes care of them because their
mother has to work long hours to make ends
meet after the recent death of their father.
Veronica goes inside her parents’ room to
find pictures of her father, whom she misses
very much.
She finds one and decides to bring the picture
to school.
Veronica goes to a Catholic school, and nuns
run it.
In the classroom, the teacher talks about
the phenomenon of a solar eclipse that also
happens to occur on that day.
The teacher explains that in some cultures,
they believe that darkness takes over the
world when the eclipse happens.
She also says that ancient people use that
day to perform human sacrifices and to summon
dark spirits.
The faculty gather the students on the school
rooftop to watch and take a glimpse of the
rare solar eclipse.
Instead of joining the other students in viewing
the phenomenon, Veronica, her friend Rosa,
and their classmate Diana head to the school
basement to perform a séance.
The basement is dark, dusty, and run-down,
but it did not stop the three of them to go
down there.
Meanwhile, the rest of the students are excited
to catch a sight of the eclipse.
They all hold a negative film strip to protect
their eyes from the harmful sunlight.
Veronica and her friends continue the séance
using an Ouija board.
They all want to contact a loved one who has
died.
They close their eyes, touch the glass on
the board, and try to contact spirits.
The glass moves and the three of them start
to get scared.
They ask the “spirit” for its name, and
if it wants to communicate, it responds by
moving the glass.
Rosa and Diana remove their hand from the
glass, leaving Veronica the only one touching
it.
The glass moves around the board rapidly and
leaves them all shocked.
Rosa and Diana place their hands on the glass
again and try to ask for the spirit’s name.
Once more, the glass moves rapidly and becomes
too hot to touch, leaving Veronica the only
one touching it again.
The eclipse happens, and Veronica sits still
while holding the glass as it eventually breaks,
giving
her a bloody index finger.
Rosa and Diana start to worry about Veronica
because she stays still.
The candles’ lights go out, and they struggle
to find their flashlights.
Veronica is lying unconscious, but she is
murmuring words until she lets out a demonic
scream.
She blacks out and ends up at the school clinic;
the resident doctor at the school asks her
questions to know why she fainted.
Without any apparent reason, the doctor advises
her to rest.
As she meets up with her two sisters after
class, they notice the school's headmistress,
an elderly blind woman who everyone calls
Sister Death, looking directly at Veronica
as if she can see.
As they arrive home, Veronica goes straight
to her room to observe the Ouija board that
cut in half after their séance.
She carefully puts her backpack with the board
on top of her closet; she goes outside but
hears a noise from her room.
As she re-enters, the bag is on the floor;
she places it on top of the closet once again;
the same thing happens—her bag is on the
floor.
This is the beginning of the paranormal experiences
that Veronica will encounter.
While having dinner, Veronica starts shaking
and is unable to put the food in her mouth.
Her younger siblings begin to get scared and
worry about her.
Veronica snaps out of it.
Still confused, she says that she is completely
fine.
She notices claw and bite marks appear on
her body as well.
After having so many questions in her mind,
she tries calling Rosa, but it seems like
her friend is avoiding her.
While bathing Antoñito, Veronica hears a
thumping sound from the living room; she tells
Lucia and Irene to behave and keep quiet,
but both are in their rooms.
The light in her room starts flickering, and
she is locked inside.
Antoñito screams for Veronica from the bathroom
because the water in the bath turned extremely
hot, leaving the poor boy with burns.
Veronica cleans up for the night as she notices
the TV suddenly turning on; an entity’s
reflection is seen from the TV as she turns
it off, directly looking at her from behind.
In the middle of the night, her closet mirror
opens out of nowhere; someone calls her, and
she sees an entity that exactly looks like
her father.
She panics as it drags her back to the bed
and entangles her.
She realizes that it is just a nightmare even
though it seems too realistic to be a dream.
Veronica’s friends begin to ignore her.
Looking for answers, she goes back to the
basement alone, where Sister Death already
awaits her.
The nun warns her about the situation that
she is in and continues to scold her for trying
to summon someone from the dead.
Sister Death tells Veronica that her siblings
are in danger and that she must protect them.
The nun attempts to propel the spirit to leave
the girl alone, but it is not compelling enough.
Veronica confronts Rosa about why she avoids
her, but she denies that what happened in
the basement isn’t real.
At home, she draws protective symbols for
her siblings.
Her sister contacts her from
the walkie talkie; from across their room,
Veronica sees the spirit, and she runs as
fast as she can to rescue her sisters.
The spirit chokes Lucia, but she wakes up
and claims that it was Veronica who choked
her.
That same night, Veronica has a dream that
her siblings are devouring her flesh.
She shouts for help, but once again, it is
just a dream.
She woke up to having her first period—finally
reaching womanhood.
She scrubs the blood on her bed and as she
turns it upside down, burn marks are present.
She checks her siblings’ mattresses, and
the same burn marks are also present in the
form of a human body.
To seek advice, Veronica goes to Sister Death;
the nun reveals to her that she intentionally
blinded herself in an attempt to stop visions
of evil spirits.
She is unsuccessful because even without her
vision, she can still feel and sense dark
entities.
Sister Death reminds Veronica that the spirit
summoned has to go back through the same door
she opened.
It is crucial that Veronica has to bid farewell
to the same spirit to stop it from being in
her life and destroy the door opened during
the séance.
Veronica comes over to Rosa’s house; there
is a party going on, and she persuades Rosa
to bid goodbye to the spirit that they summoned.
She looks for Diana at the house, also forcing
her to finish the séance officially.
She is kicked out of the party, and Rosa does
nothing to help her.
Rosa reveals to her that Veronica whispered
that she would die in three days.
Feeling terrified and alone, Veronica walks
home with a troubled mind as her vision becomes
fazed.
She reaches their bar and desperately asks
her mom to stay at home with them for the
night.
Her mom explains that she is busy and cannot
afford to close the bar for a night.
Veronica and her siblings head home, and she
decides to continue the séance at their apartment.
She comes up with the idea to do it with her
younger siblings.
It confuses them as they are still young,
but they obey their older sister’s commands
anyway.
Antoñito draws the protective signs around
their apartment.
He flips to the wrong page and draws the symbol
of invocation instead, inviting the evil spirit
even more.
Ready to hold the séance, except for Antoñito,
all of them touch the glass on the Ouija board.
They command the spirit to say goodbye, but
it refuses.
The book instructs that they have to sing
a soft song to properly say goodbye to the
spirit disturbing them.
All of them sing in unison; they begin to
hear thumping noises around their apartment.
The spirit attempts to distract and scare
them.
The candles’ lights go out, the Ouija board
tears apart in half, and the glass moves around
the apartment.
Veronica follows it fearfully and ends up
in the bedroom.
The spirit comes out from the mattress and
tries to run after her.
She desperately calls the police as the spirit
snatched her little brother.
She runs after the spirit and ends up losing
consciousness for a while.
She finds Antoñito in the bathroom, grabs
him, and they all escape to safety.
Veronica’s mother notices cop cars passing
by at the bar, and she couldn’t help but
worry about her children.
She leaves the bar in the middle of the pouring
rain and tries to get home.
When Veronica and her siblings
reach the exit of their building, she looks
at a mirror and realizes that she isn’t
actually holding Antoñito; it was all her
imagination.
With no choice, she comes back up alone to
rescue her brother.
The spirit strikes her, and Veronica hits
her head on a mirror.
She is now holding a piece of broken glass
as she finds Antoñito hiding in a closet
calling her name.
Antoñito refuses to come with her, making
Veronica look at herself in the mirror—realizing
that she has been possessed by the spirit
the entire time and that she has been harming
her siblings under its control.
In an attempt to end the possession, she tries
to slit her own throat, but the evil spirit
manages to stop her.
The authorities arrive at their apartment
and are shocked to see Veronica being attacked
by an invisible force until she passes out.
This sight leaves them speechless.
The paramedics rescue her along with Antoñito.
While the police observe the family’s apartment,
a picture of Veronica catches fire out of
nowhere.
At that exact moment, an officer calls the
detective to inform him that Veronica has
died.
To this day, Veronica’s story and death
remain a mystery.
Her story is based on a police report that
happened in real life, and the police who
have witnessed her case certifies it.